# Welcome to the az-103-study-guide wiki!

Preparing for AZ-103 Azure Administrator exam? Don’t know where to start? This post is the AZ-103 Certification Study Guide (with links to each exam objective).

I have curated a list of articles from Microsoft documentation for each objective of AZ-103 exam. I hope this article will be your AZ-103 Certification Study Guide.

Also, please share the post within your circles so it helps them to prepare for the exam.

Here you go!

**_This guide is originally posted at:_** http://ravikirans.com/az-103-certification-study-guide/

# AZ-103 – Manage Azure subscriptions and resources

## Manage Azure subscriptions

Assign administrator permissions
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/billing/billing-add-change-azure-subscription-administrator

Configure cost center quotas and tagging
https://linkedin-learning.pxf.io/costCenter

Configure Azure subscription policies at Azure subscription level
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/policy/assign-policy-portal

 
## Analyze resource utilization and consumption

Configure diagnostic settings on resources
https://linkedin-learning.pxf.io/diagnostic

Create a baseline for resources
https://linkedin-learning.pxf.io/Baseline (check with a free trial)

Create and test alerts
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/alerts-metric

Analyze alerts across subscription
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/alerts-managing-alert-instances

Analyze metrics across subscription
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/metrics-charts

Create action groups
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/action-groups

Monitor for unused resources
https://docs.bmc.com/docs/btco113/reclaiming-the-unused-and-overallocated-azure-virtual-machines-785283461.html

Monitor spend
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/billing/billing-getting-started#ways-to-monitor-your-costs-when-using-azure-services

Report on spend
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/billing/billing-download-azure-invoice-daily-usage-date

Utilize Log Search query functions
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/log-query/search-queries

View alerts in Log Analytics
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/alert-management-solution


## Manage resource groups

Use Azure policies for resource groups
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/policy/samples/enforce-tag-on-resource-groups

Configure resource locks
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/resource-group-lock-resources

Configure resource policies
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/policy/tutorials/create-and-manage

Identify auditing requirements
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/resource-group-audit

Implement and set tagging on resource groups
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/resource-group-using-tags#portal

Move resources across resource groups
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/resource-group-move-resources#move-resources

Remove resource groups
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/resource-manager-quickstart-create-templates-use-the-portal#clean-up-resources

 
## Managed role-based access control (RBAC)

Create a custom role
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/tutorial-custom-role-powershell

Configure access to Azure resources by assigning roles
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/role-assignments-portal#add-a-role-assignment

Configure management access to Azure
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/role-assignments-portal

Troubleshoot RBAC
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/troubleshooting

Implement RBAC policies
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/conditional-access-azure-management

Assign RBAC Roles
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/quickstart-assign-role-user-portal



### Read the entire guide: 
http://ravikirans.com/az-103-certification-study-guide/
